feat: ERC initial draft (#1002)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-X.md

## Specification
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Interoperable Address binary format definition
In binary format addresses have the following encoding:

```
┌─────────┬────────────┬─────────┬─────────┬─────────┐
│ Version │ Chainidlen │ Chainid │ Addrlen │ Address │
└─────────┴────────────┴─────────┴─────────┴─────────┘
```

Where:

Version
: a 2-byte version identifier. In the current standard this must always be the big-endian unsigned int 1. Other versions should be defined in future ERCs.

Chainidlen
: a 1-byte integer encoding the length of Chainid in bytes.

Chainid
: Variable length, binary representation of CAIP-2 chain namespace & reference serialized as explained in [Appendix A](#appendix-a-binary-encoding-of-caip-2-blockchain-id) encoding the chain ID.

Addrlen
: 1-byte integer encoding the length of Address in bytes.

Address

> : Variable length field containing the binary format of the address component. For EVM addresses this is always 20 bytes, for serialization details of other types of addresses see [Appendix B](#appendix-b-binary-encoding-of-addresses)

Author: 6925eb37

#### Restrictions for all Interoperable Address versions
- The Interoperable Address MUST include an address and specify the chain it belongs to, fully defining a target address. Any version adding an indirection layer between payload data and these two fields would violate this restriction.
    - Furthermore, future versions MUST be serialized to v1 and use the same input data to the checksum algorithm as described below, so an Interoperable Address' checksum only represents its target address.
- Interoperable Address versions MAY only be able to represent a subset of the CAIP-2 namespaces.
- Interoperable Address versions MAY assign extra syntactic restrictions on the human-readable name, coupled to novel semantic meaning (e.g. use of ENS or other naming registries)
- Interoperable Address versions MAY define extra fields for purposes such as storing information on how to display the addresses.

### Human-readable name format definition
This section is considered OPTIONAL.

#### Syntax
```bnf
<human readable name> ::= <account>@<chain>#<checksum>

> <account>             ::= [-:_%a-zA-Z0-9]*

Author: Reasonable. I wanted to use 'account' so the 'address' concept remains coupled to Interoperable Address, but 'account' is never really defined in this document so I'll stick to 'address' for consisntency I think

### CAIP-2 namespaces' binary representation table

| Namespace | binary key |
| ---       | ---        |
| eip155    | `0x0000`   |
| solana    | `0x0002`   |

#### eip155
The bare `chainid` encoded as a big-endian unsigned integer of the minimum necessary amount of bytes will be used [^1], and leading zeroes will be prohibited. 

[^1]: This makes it possible to represent some chains using the full word as their chainid, which CAIP-2 does not support since the set of values representable with 32 `a-zA-Z0-9` characters has less than `type(uint256).max` elements. This is done in an effort to support chains whose ID is the output of `keccak256`, as proposed in ERC-7785.

##### Examples
Ethereum Mainnet: `0x000001` (1, encoded as uint8)

Optimism Mainnet: `0x00000A` (10, encoded as uint8)

Ethereum Sepolia: `0x0000aa36a7` (11155111, encoded as uint24)

#### solana
Solana networks are distinguished by its genesis blockhash, which is to be decoded from base58btc and stored raw in the binary representation and without removing any leading zeroes:

In the human-readable name, it should be displayed in full and base58btc-encoded, as returned by the node.

> Note: CAIP-2 limits chain references to 32 characters and instructs to only use the first 32 characters of the base58btc-encoded genesis blockhash, therefore converting to it will require truncating the reference, so converting _from_ actual CAIP-2 to this standard is potentially ambiguous

Reviewer: I've already commented on this in https://github.com/ethereum/L2-interop/pull/30#discussion_r2014406077 but I'm raising it again because we still haven't resolved what to do about it.

I think "ambiguity" is an understatement. If I have a CAIP-2 id I can't convert it to a chain id of this kind without additional information.

Author: thanks for bringing this up again. I'll define anoter CAIP _profile_ which will take care of: 
- defining how to serialize addresses
- choosing the two-byte identifier for the namespace
- defining how to serialize the chain reference

I imagine the mapping from short/text to long/binary ids can be defined as part of the last item? that'd mean moving choosing between potential hash collisions to the social layer.
Alternatively we could just not solve it, I don't think it'd be too problematic since users are very unlikely to type out caip-2 identifiers directly, and I find it hard to imagine a context where you start from the CAIP-2 string, have to produce an Interoperable Address, and can't afford a dictionary to map between the two.

What other solutions do you have in mind?

Author: update: given that this has to be defined for every chain namespace, there's the obvious solution of specifying how to truncate the blockhashes in this document :grinning: 
Since solana does not actively mine collisions on the first bytes as bitcoin does, and AFAIK does not have competing forks, the first few bytes are likely to remain meaningful. wdyt? Am I missing something?

#### Syntax
```bnf
<human readable name> ::= <address>@<chain>#<checksum>
<address>             ::= [.-:_%a-zA-Z0-9]*
<chain>               ::= [.-:_a-zA-Z0-9]*
<checksum>            ::= [0-9A-F]{8}
```

Where:

Chain

> : String representation of CAIP namespace, recovered from the binary representation described in [Appendix A](#appendix-a-binary-encoding-of-caip-2-blockchain-id). In the case where `ChainReferenceLength` is zero, it should be the empty string.

Reviewer: ```diff
-CAIP-2 blockchain identifier
+CAIP namespace
```

Is this right? Namespace sounds wrong to me. A namespace would be for example `eip155`. I do think we want the CAIP-2 blockchain identifier, e.g. `eip155:1`.

Author: you're right, good catch! I've rewritten this part to display the chain type (which actually is the chain namespace :upside_down_face: ) in the case where the chain reference is not actually defined, which came up as an inconsistency when prototyping the wallet

| eip155    | `0x0000`   |
| solana    | `0x0002`   |

#### eip155

##### Text representation
```
eip155:<number>
```
Where `<number>` is the decimal representation of the chain's `chainid`, without leading zeroes.

##### Binary representation
The bare `chainid` encoded as a big-endian unsigned integer of the minimum necessary amount of bytes will be used [^1], and leading zeroes will be prohibited.

[^1]: This makes it possible to represent some chains using the full word as their chainid, which CAIP-2 does not support since the set of values representable with 32 `a-zA-Z0-9` characters has less than `type(uint256).max` elements. This is done in an effort to support chains whose ID is the output of `keccak256`, as proposed in ERC-7785.

##### Text -> binary conversion
Encode the decimal integer as a big-endian unsigned integer using the minimum necessary amount of bytes.

##### Binary -> text conversion
Compute the decimal representation of the stored big-endian unsigned integer

##### Examples
Ethereum Mainnet: `0x01` (1, encoded as uint8)

Optimism Mainnet: `0x0A` (10, encoded as uint8)

Ethereum Sepolia: `0xaa36a7` (11155111, encoded as uint24)

#### solana

> Solana networks are distinguished by its genesis blockhash, which is normally represented as 44 base58btc characters, corresponding to 32 bytes. We chose to perform the same truncation as CAIP-2[^2] to keep representations trivially convertible between the two, making them also visually identical.

Reviewer: I think we should be consistent in the decision to truncate ids following CAIP-2 or not...

I'm not fond of truncation, so unless we know of scenarios where it will be necessary to convert CAIP-2 ids to interoperable addresses I think I would avoid truncation altogether.

##### Text representation
The first 32 characters of the base58btc-encoded genesis blockhash are used. This is consistent with the CAIP-2 representation.

##### Binary representation
To obtain the binary representation from the base58btc-encoded genesis blockhash, first truncate the base58btc-encoded text to its first 32 characters as described above and then decode it to raw bytes.
It is worth noting that while this yields a 23-byte long result, it does not correspond to simply slicing the first 23 bytes from the genesis blockhash.

##### Text -> binary conversion
Text should be base58btc decoded into raw bytes

##### Binary -> text conversion
Raw bytes should be base58btc encoded into text

##### Examples
Solana Mainnet
: `solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdp`
: `0x19e15de390a1bfea7ad6ed13c9898b4881b8aef9e705b31b`

Note that Solana Mainnet's blockhash is:
- base58btc `5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d`
- base16 `45296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef0`

## Appendix B: Binary encoding of addresses

### eip155
Bytes of EVM addresses are trivially stored as the payload. 

> It's worth noting that addresses are currently 20 bytes, but that might change in the future, most likely to 32 bytes, if the EVM Object Format is ever adopted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's worth noting that addresses are currently 20 bytes, but that might change in the future, most likely to 32 bytes, if Address Space Expansion is ever implemented. If that happens, expanded addresses may be represented in 32 bytes, but pre-expansion addresses must remain 20 bytes in order to preserve a consistent address.
```

Reviewer: For context: EVM Object Format doesn't increase addresses to 32 bytes, it only lays the groundwork to make that possible in the future.

Author: Thanks for coming back to this! 
Clarified this as a footnote in f1c77147 , lmk what you think
